# FACE-RECOGNITION-USING-OPEN-MP-
A facial recognition system is a technology capable of identifying or verifying a person from a digital image or a video frame from a video source. There are multiple methods in which facial recognition systems work, but in general, they work by comparing selected facial features from given image with faces within a database. It is also described as a Biometric Artificial Intelligence based application that can uniquely identify a person by analysing patterns based on the person's facial textures and shape.    Facial recognition is a category of biometric software that maps an individual's facial features mathematically and stores the data as a faceprint. The software uses deep learning algorithms to compare a live capture or digital image to the stored faceprint in order to verify an individual's identity    Facial recognition is a biometric software application capable of uniquely identifying or verifying a person by comparing and analyzing patterns based on the person's facial contours. Facial recognition is mostly used for security purposes, though there is increasing interest in other areas of use. In fact, facial recognition technology has received significant attention as it has potential for a wide range of application related to law enforcement as well as other enterprises.    There are different facial recognition techniques in use, such as the generalized matching face detection method and the adaptive regional blend matching method. Most facial recognition systems function based on the different nodal points on a human face. The values measured against the variable associated with points of a person’s face help in uniquely identifying or verifying the person. With this technique, applications can use data captured from faces and can accurately and quickly identify target individuals. Facial recognition techniques are quickly evolving with new approaches such as 3-D modeling, helping to overcome issues with existing techniques.   
